                                    AGILE

Agile = Agile is a complete software development life cycle(SDLC) Process.
? To complete all the requirements of  customer/stack holders in step by step.
Que : WHAT IS AGILE? (Standard definition)
?Agile is an approach to software development under which requirements and solution revolve through the collaborative efforts of self organizing and cross functional team and their customer.

Que : Why we use Agile? 
? Developer and tester  work together in Agile .(both development and testing activities are concurrent)
?Agile is fast model.(faster than water fall and v model)
?very less documentation.(90% documents are not required)
?we can submit one version of software to customer after completing one sprint.
?if any changes comes while working on sprint. We can easily resolve.
?Less time required.

?  Which persons involve in agile and their roles ?
?Product Owner.
?Scrum Master
?Developer
?Tester
?Roles in Agile.
Product Owner :
? product owner is main person in Agile.
? To create product backlog.
?To create Epic and divide that Epic into multiple stories.
? He is responsible for getting the requirements   from customer/ stakeholder.
?He is mediator between customer and company.
? He decide the release date and content.
?Accept and reject work result.
? prioritize feature according to market value.

 Scrum Master :
?The scrum Master only care for process about work
?a scrum master is the facilitator for an agile development team.
?He is mediator between product owner and development, tester.
?He is not a technical person (NO developer, NO tester) 

Developer :( Task )
? Review the story.
?Estimate the story (using poker point)( points is in fib number like 1,2,3,5,8,13,21). It is also called as story point.
(story point : time required to complete sprint)
? Design  and coding.
? Write unit test.
Tester :( Task )
?Review the Story.
?write test cases.
?review test case.
?create Test environment
?Execute Test Cases
?Reports bugs.

Que : what is Product Backlog?
? It is a document which involve complete information about software.
?prepared by Product owner. ( prepared in sequential manner )
?product backlog converted into EPIC.
Que : What is Epic and Story?
Epic ?  it is a large requirement.( made by product owner), Epic converted into story.
Story? Small  requirnment.
task?  actual work done by developer and tester.(action we need to complete particular story).

? Meeting in Agile? ( ceremonies in agile?)
1) Release planning Meeting : 
? If customer want their product in 3 months then the product owner divide in specific parts.  
?how many sprint is required ? How many stories in one sprint ?
Sprint1Sprint2Sprint3Sprint4Sprint5
?sprint duration is 2 – 3 weeks (  like start at 1 jan 2021 to 21 jan 2021)
? what are the stories Implement in sprint.
These all things done in this meeting.

2) sprint planning meeting :
?  Estimate to the story
? one time meeting…. before starting a sprint( duration 2 hr)
?scrum master + developer + tester
3) sprint review meeting :
?after completing a sprint 
?developer and tester give demo to  product owner.
?last day of sprint.
4) sprint retro meeting : (retrospective)
?after closing sprint
?after sprint  product owner ,developer , tester analysis to 
    What went well? What went wrong? Improvement areas.
5) daily scrum meeting(daily call, daily stand up):
?duration 15-20 min.
?scrum master developer tester
?status of yesterday work and today work(status of last and next 24 hr).































         
